# make questions as not just string but id like leetcode based object which have metadata like tags.

1. Implement LRU cache? Where and why is it used? Tags - LRU, cache, eviction strategy
2. Why newer Fastapi setup prefer LRU as object fetcher than singleton? Tags - LRU, FastAPI, singleton
3. How DNS works? Tags - DNS, domain
4. How geoDNS routing works? Tags - geolocation, DNS, geoDNS
5. How data replication works across servers, replicas, data centers? What if one fails before backing up some data? How to minimise this? Tags - data center, replica, backuo
6. What are message queues? Why are they needed? Tags - message, queue, publisher, producer, subscrber, consumer
7. How message queue differs from polling? Tags - message, queue, publisher, producer, subscrber, consumer, polling
8. How message queues differ from message streams? Tags - message, queue, publisher, producer, subscrber, consumer, polling, kafka, redis queue, eventhub, service bus
9. In a pub-sub model, when do we need to scale up the subscribers?
10. What are the metrics one should keep to track large system's health?
11. What is CI/CD?
12. Implement CI/CD on some service provider.
13. What are the best practices and stages/steps to keep in a good CI/CD pipeline?
14. How to scale a SQL db?
15. How to scale a NoSQL db?
16. What is sharding? Implement it in postgres.
17. How sharding works? And how a query work with shards? How indexes work with shards? Try querying and indexing 
18. How to keep the hashing consistent for increasing/decreasing shards? Try this yourself too
19. What is hashing? Review multiple types of hashing, their pros, cons, limitations, and usages. Implement some.
20. What is consistent hashing? Try this yourself too
21. What is a sharding key/partition key? How should be decide a sharding key?
22. What is a sharding function? Why do we need to change our sharding functions for consistency?
23. What is the celebrity problem or hotspot key problem in shards? What is the solution?
24. What are the pros and cons of sharding?
25. What is normalisation and de-normalisation in SQL dbs? Implement in postgres
26.What is a back-of-the-envelope estimation? Practice so e for problems 
27. What are the caching levels like L1, L2?
28. What are the typical latency numbers for various computer operations?
29. Why is memory faster than disk?
30. How memory read/write differs from disk read/writes?
31. What are compression algorithms? Implement and Review some, their pro, cons, speed, usages.
32. What is Gzip middleware, and how does it work? Implement in fastapi
33. What are typical availability numbers or uptime numbers?
34. What is an SLA?
35. What are sizes of python datatypes? Check typical sizes in bytes based on different lengths of datatypes
36. What are sizes of java datatypes? Check typical sizes in bytes based on different lengths of datatypes